It was a genuine pleasure to sit with José Arguellas.
He's been working for more than 50 years
to assist humanity in becoming aware of our destiny
as a species at this point of change.
He was a driving force behind the creation of Earth Day
and the harmonic convergence, in which he called
upon mankind to respect the Earth
and hold a higher vision of our future.
His greatest work, however, has been
in helping uncover the meaning of the Mayan calendar
at a time when time matters.
He says this system of natural time cycles
was brought to Earth to counter the negative effects
on human consciousness of the Gregorian calendar.
Jose, it's a pleasure to sit with you.
I've been following your work for some time
and we're going to get into the real meat of it,
and I thought we might start off,
just so people get to know a bit
of your heart and soul better,
about an experience that happened
when you were 14 years old that really helped
guide the rest of your life.
Yes, when I was 14,
I was brought up in Mexico for my first five-plus years,
and then, through different circumstances,
I ended up in the United States,
and when I was 14, my father finally had the opportunity
there to go back to the home country
for the first time since we left,
and he wanted to take my twin brother and myself with him,
which was a delight to me.
As you noted, I was 14, and I had,
for me, Mexico was a very mysterious, mystical part
of my life, my father was Mexican,
and we were living in a very, very,
very, very white North American community,
and he had a number of books that I could
study and look at and I got some glimpses
and ideas of ancient Mexico,
so when we went down on this trip,
I had in myself, there's only one thing I wanted to do,
I wanted to get to the top of the largest pyramid,
Teotihuacan, outside of Mexico City,
it's like burning in me.
And that finally happened, we drove down
from Minnesota all the way down to Mexico City,
a week or 10 days or whatever that was,
and after a few days in Mexico City
with some of my relatives, we finally got
the chance to go to Teotihuacan.
It was a nice summer morning, maybe late July,
it may be exactly 57 years ago today, for all I know,
and we got there, and we got out of my uncle's car
and we got into the main part of Teotihuacan,
and I saw the pyramid, and as soon as I saw it,
I went running to it, and I ran up all the way to the top,
it's a very large pyramid, it's like the size
of the Great Pyramid in Egypt,
I stepped pyramid, I got to the top,
and when I got to the top, I looked around,
and I could see just how small everybody was,
and I could feel like, I could feel
what it was in my being in that,
the day before I had been in Mexico City,
they're all proud that they had
a Sears and Roebuck there now,
and I was just thinking, I could just feel this contrast
between the Sears and Roebuck in Mexico City
and what this was all about,
and then as I sat there, contemplating it all,
it was like I was filled with a white light, literally,
I remember just feeling like everything kind of dissolved
into this white light and it was like I had
this deep presentiment inside of myself,
that it was my life mission to find out
what the cosmic knowledge was
that was behind these pyramids
and what that cosmic knowledge was,
and bring that back to the modern world,
because I felt it might be useful to modern humans.
57 years later, as you say,
now we're approaching a really interesting time in history
for all of humanity, for all lifeforms on planet Earth,
and this possibility of our going through
a conscious type of evolution,
and along the way, one of the stories that
is closely aligned with you is that of time,
and I think everyone relates to the subject of time
right now, because we feel as though we're being pushed
by it, it seems to consume us, it creates great deals
of stress and strife in our lives
that we're not even aware of, it's really subconscious,
and I would love it if you would just tell us
how you began to understand time,
and go through some of the historical perspectives
of the development of modern...
Yes, well, it was my good fortune,
after this experience on the pyramid,
to return to my home town in Minnesota,
and within two or three months,
I was working at the public library, shelving books,
and it was my good fortune, a few months later,
to come across a book by Sylvanus Morley
called The Ancient Maya, this is, at that time,
one of the top books about the Maya,
archeological, of course, but very, kind of,
for that time, when it was published, 1947,
this was 1954, as complete information as you could find
on the Maya, and I opened that book
and he had a chapter and everything,
I opened the chapter on Mayan mathematics and astronomy,
and I said, shoo, that was it,
I knew that was what I was supposed to look at.
It explained that the Mayan system,
mathematical system, astronomical system,
and calendrical system was,
A, radically different from anything we knew in the West,
or actually, anywhere else in the world,
because the Mayan system is based
on what's called a 20-count, instead of a 10-count,
it's not decimal, but duodecimal,
they also had a positional zero,
just like the decimal system,
so they were able to make
fantastically huge computations,
they could compute anything,
it's a very, very different system.
It was written in very simple method
of dot-bar notation, one dot is one,
two dots is two, four dots is four, a bar is five,
and you get up to 19, and you have
a dot and a zero, and that's 20.
And so I learned that system, I loved it,
and I would do mathematical computations with it,
it was more fun than physics.
And you were what, 15, 16?
14, yeah, so, from there,
I knew I developed this passion,
that I wanted to learn more about it,
there wasn't much to learn, to study or learn from
back in those days,
but this interest in the Mayan calendar
then led me to a point in 1969
where I met a man named Tony Scher
who showed me the sacred calendar,
the 260-day, which is the basis of it,
and then during the 1970s, I made a big version
of the sacred calendar in dot-bar notation,
this is a 13 series,
a 20 series of akanda, of 13,
which creates this matrix, and it was, like,
unlike anything I had ever seen.
I studied, I meditated, and so and so, through the--
and what I was interested in was the mathematics
behind this, this is the basis of the calendar,
this was the basis of their astronomy,
it was a highly harmonic mathematical system,
so through the 80s, I studied that,
and in my book, The Mayan Factor,
I sent this guy some of my knowledge about that,
and after The Mayan Factor was published, in 1989,
that was three years after it was published,
I already started experimenting living on some
of these cycles, working out the mathematics
of what these cycles were,
and in 1989, on December 10th,
I had the great good fortune of being
in the Clock Museum in Geneva, Switzerland,
as it's popularly known as the Museum of Time there,
since I was really interested in time by this point,
and I had seen what the Mayan system was,
I'd seen the Gregorian system a little bit
with the leap day, and I saw how
if you had a leap day in a particular Mayan system,
it threw the system off, and so I was in the Clock Museum,
and I realized, after two hours,
that the whole of modern civilization
is based on a frequency,
12, to mark the 12 hours
that you have on the face of any clock,
and that you find anywhere, 60 minutes,
and also 12 months Gregorian calendar.
I knew, in a flash, I said,
"This is the reason why modern civilization
"is going to fall off the edge of the cliff."
That, now, for most people, they'd say,
"Huh, how did you get that out
"of the visit to the Clock Museum?"
But what was it you were experiencing in that?
What I was experiencing was
how artificial, mechanistic this time was compared--
see, if I hadn't studied the Mayan mathematics
and Mayan calendar, I would have never had this ah-ha.
And that's what gave me the ah-ha, I had,
what the sorcerers say, is study a separate reality
and look at this reality and see what it is.
So I was able to see what it was, I said,
this Mayan time is cosmic, it's universal,
it's endless cycles, it puts you in the rhythms of nature,
and this other time, that's in the clock museum,
is all based on artificial time, you know,
and people never stop to think about, when you look
at a clock, it's a measurement of space,
it's just watching these little hands go around a circle
in space, okay, that's all it does, all day long,
and it moves, every 60 minutes it moves
one-twelfth of that circle, and that's time,
people think that's what time is,
that's not time,
that's just this mechanistic thing
going on with the little circle in space,
and we base our whole life on it.
Well, and that perception,
that that's what time is, regulates the way
we interface with our own lives and consciousness
and each other, it rules.
See, we don't understand the degree to which,
when we look at ourselves existentially,
we orient ourselves by space, where am I,
where is the sun rising, where does the sun set,
where is the Big Dipper, what phase is the moon in,
you know, it's like that, that's how we orient ourselves.
The other way we orient ourselves is by time.
Time is really subjective.
It's so hard for us to think of time,
it's very hard for anyone in Western civilization
to think of time existing
without April, June, and November.
Okay, it's hard to say--
you know, for, like, for that tree there,
it doesn't matter what it is,
it's just living in the eternal now,
but we're in this cycle that takes us every year,
from January 1st, we wake up and we've got
a hangover and depression, all the way
to December 31st, so we binged and we got
too many materials, presents, and everything else,
and repeats it, and that's the macro program.
The micro program is that clock.
I saw that the humans--
I just saw in a flash how the human,
the global civilization based on this clock,
which has everybody speeding, speeding up
and speeding up and at the same time
distracted timing program as the Gregorian calendar,
and I saw that that, because neither of those is based--
it doesn't, it takes you out of touch
with your natural rhythms.
The clock is not based
on any natural rhythm, it's a machine.
It's a mechanization of our time sense,
so this whole subjective sensibility becomes mechanized,
it gets divorced from nature, so when you get
divorced from nature, you know,
"Nature doesn't have any soul, we'll do what we need to.
"We'll take what we want, okay?"
We move, we put it all into create a consumer society,
we transform the commodity,
the raw grids in the commodities and so it's all for money.
Time is money, is the whole philosophy,
and that came up at the beginning of the industrial age
in the 18th century, so that's the--
our prevailing concept of time is the clock,
and time is money.
So I have a few different--
I'm sorry, go ahead.
It's leading me to a few different lines
of questioning, one of them is,
when you think about time, it's noticed
that often, in the southern hemisphere,
in a lot of countries, there doesn't seem
to be the same connection to mechanistic time
that there is in the northern hemisphere, when you
get into the European and Northern American cultures.
Is that something that might be more indigenous,
that lingers and is still speaking to people?
You know, I don't know how true that is,
because I've spent a lot of time in the southern hemisphere.
Well, you know more than I,
are they running on time these days?
The fact is, you know, Brazil is getting heavy,
it's running on time.
Didn't used to.
Yeah, but they are.
So, that's the colonialist legacy everywhere in the world,
there's nowhere in the world that isn't like that,
we are, so what I'm saying is that this artificial--
we're living by artificial time, it separates us
from nature, it separates us from our own souls,
it makes us more and more alienated from ourselves,
it makes us more and more alienated from nature,
the more alienated from nature we become,
the easier it is for us to just deplete the resources
and use them for our own goods to make money
or to spend our money on, and so,
and I saw, I could see, let's just, that's just
a truck without brakes heading for a brick wall.
That's because, the machine is going,
and then the faster the machine goes,
the faster we go, one thing, you know, to have
railroad trains, it's another thing to have an automobile,
it's another thing to have an airplane,
but to have a computer, that's going very fast,
and the thing is, every single one of these
is an untested technology.
Untested in sense of its humanity?
Let's see, how will this impact society?
How will it impact our psyche,
how will it impact how we live?
No, they just, as soon as you invent it, you run for it.
Yeah, no, that's very true.
We're very conditioned to that.
So we're living this great, great,
great untested experiment of technology,
and it's actually driving us crazy and killing us.
It is, and when you stop to think about it,
one of the things that intrigues me is,
you look at the cycles of nature, that's very obvious
if you live in an area with seasons, but even just--
it seems like time should be more oriented
toward the natural cycles of nature,
but also the cycles of our own internal functioning.
I mean, even digestion has its own genuine cycle,
and we don't operate even within the simplest
structure of our own body's needs, our own brain's needs.
Exactly, no, we don't, we just,
we cram everything, it's a 9-to-5 world,
it's a five-day week,
and now it's a 24-7 life.
And you mentioned, I heard you talk earlier,
and you were talking about our own telepathic abilities
are even squelched by this,
by being tethered to time.
Talk more about that, please.
Well, you know,
if you allow yourself to go out
and live in the wilderness for two weeks,
or four weeks, just in the wilderness,
with one cycle of the moon,
say, as your gauge,
you will find, and no clock, no watch,
nothing like that, no computer, no cell phone,
you will find that you are getting in touch
with aspects of your being that you hardly knew existed,
and you will also find that just to orient yourself
and be where you are, you have to become
much more telepathically perceptive.
When we, like I said, our time sense is very subjective,
it's very much related to our capacity for telepathy,
when we are continuously texting, or looking at a clock,
or being run by the clock, we don't think,
we're just mechanical automatons or robots,
we're just moving very quickly.
You know, the closer it gets to 9 o'clock
and the people are coming off the buses and subways
as fast as they run to get to work.
That's because they're ruled by the clock,
if they're late for work, time is money, they lose money.
Or their job.
Or their job, yeah.
So that's the whole picture, and so that's--
I mean, we all, you know,
we have never stopped to think about that,
because that's life, okay, that's how we grew up,
and as I say, no one ever questioned it,
but what we're saying is, like,
I was able to take this view from the outside, saying,
no, it's, you're blowing it, you know,
the actual nature of time is synchronicity,
okay, that's the nature of time.
Everything in the universe is synchronized with itself.
The moon is synchronized going around the Earth,
the Earth is synchronized going around the sun,
the sun is synchronized in its constellation,
with the galaxy, and going around the galaxy,
the whole galaxy cluster is synchronized,
and so on and so forth, so everything is synchronized.
The birds wake up in the morning
when the first rays of the sun come up,
and they stop their tweet-tweet-tweeting
when the sun goes down, and it's all,
everything is a big synchronistic symphony,
from the point of view of the Earth, the Earth is a whole--
if you get out in space and look at the Earth,
you know, sure, one side is dark and one side is light,
but it's always turning, but the Earth as a whole thing
is one same moment in time, all the time.
Okay, it's one same moment in time, all the time.
Everything, from the Earth's point of view,
everything is in a state of synchronicity.
Well, we live in an artificial bubble,
and so we can't recognize that.
Jung came up with the concept of synchronicity in 1952,
and I'm starting to scratch the surface
of the edges we're wearing out, you know,
the synchronicity and then we've got
things like LSD and stuff like that,
that pops a couple more little holes in the veil there,
you know, and then you get, by the time you get
to the 1980s and someone like the Police
put out an album called Synchronicity,
and nowadays, people are saying,
synchronistic experience is becoming more,
quote unquote, normal, okay, because the fabric
of artificial time is wearing out,
and people are looking for ways out,
and when people have synchronistic experiences,
that's telling them, oh, wait, there's another reality,
this isn't the only reality here,
but generally speaking, synchronicity
is very, very kind of abnormal experience,
it's not the every day experience.
It should be our every day,
every moment experience.
It should be,
so the only way you can get out of it
is to stop the clock.
And to let the systems--
once the systems begin to disintegrate,
that we've artificially constructed,
then we can go back into living a truer kind of life.
Take us back into Sumerian times, this whole thing
about time and the Gregorian calendar,
and some of the mathematics behind
this artificiality of time that we're living under,
I didn't understand that part of history.
Well, the Babylonians knew, from the very beginning,
the Sumerians knew that if you take a sphere
and you divide it 360 degrees,
and you divide that
into 24 parts of 15 degrees each arc,
and then each of those 15 degrees, then you subdivide that
into 60 minutes, and then each of those 60 minutes,
they'd divide into 60 seconds.
For some weird reason or another,
the Sumerians knew all that.
That's a division of space, see,
that's the whole thing, that's the basis of the clock,
the basis of time, 24 hours on the clock,
through 12 parts of 12,
12 is part of what you call a hexadecimal,
a base on six, mathematical systems,
six, 12, 60, 36,
which is a perfectly good measure of space,
but it's used to be a measure of time,
and when you use a measure of space to be a measure of time,
then that's when it starts messing,
that's not because, then it's not a natural cycle,
it's a perfect measure of space.
It's not a cycle of nature.
Do you think this was simply accidental,
or unintentional in nature?
I think that there is some kind of intentionality to it,
that came from, not necessarily from this planet.
Yes, I get that part, I understand what
you're saying, that's why I wanted you to talk about it.
So this may have been injected into the thinking,
specifically at that time, to create a kind of disharmony,
to begin the process of disconnecting us
from ourselves and nature.
In my understanding, this is precisely, then,
why the Mayans incarnated on the other side
of the planet to establish the fundamentals
of what I call the Mayan time science,
and Mayan time signs is the cosmic universal time science.
Now, this might be a little--
I don't know if it's something you care to answer,
or you've given great amount of consideration to,
there's some understanding also that the Mayans may
have been an off-planet culture source to begin with, right?
So are you talking about perhaps, at that time,
an incarnation of a group of beings
that was trying to counter them,
what had happened in the Sumerian times?
Yes, that's exactly what I'm trying to hint at.
Yes, I thought we might just say it.
Yeah, that's really, that's very much the case,
that they saw, let's put it this way,
that the galactic Mayan surveillance team, let's say,
watching this part of the, what I call,
the experimental zone of the universe,
the solar system here, that they were watching this,
they saw that, what we might call, a karmic stream
from a previous world system that wanted
to capture, let's say,
a particular planet injected this
Babylonian-Sumerian idea of time
being based on the 12 and the 60,
and that happened, and it's interesting
that the Sumerians knew that exactly
at what we call the beginning of the Mayan great cycle,
in 3100, so that's exactly when that occurred,
you have evidence of that existing at that time.
So the Mayans then came in at the right time
and said, okay, well we have to,
we see where that's at, we see where that's going to go,
and that's going to create disaster,
the only thing we can do is come down here
and plant seeds of the correct timing sensibility,
the correct mathematics of time,
and pray that, like,
at the right moment, that all this gets discovered
and that we realize what it is,
and inject the data in there,
and I think that they were so uncannily intelligent,
that they knew that, even though what we call 2012,
in the Mayan long count, mathematically speaking,
is 13.0.0.0,
they don't have a fixed starting point date,
everything is different cycles,
it's a cycle of 13 baktuns ends there,
but I think they were uncannily intelligent enough
to know that, by that time,
the Gregorian-Babylonian calendar,
it would be the year 2012,
and it would have this particular symbolism,
as I mentioned, 20 of the Mayan count,
and they follow the Babylonian meaning,
the final convergence of the Babylonian and Mayan,
but then that dissolves, because the next year,
2013, which is the 13-20 Mayan frequency.
Now, how does this, how did Egypt play into this?
Well, the Egyptians were very interesting,
they were actually, I believe,
what we call monitored by the Sirians, the Sirius star,
okay, as the Mayans were somewhat that, too,
and they, the Egyptians actually,
at an early time,
had a 13-month, 28-day calendar,
later on, and they adopted more or less
the Babylonian 12-month, 30-day, plus five extra days,
but they were not the same as the Babylonians view, okay?
Yes, that's often confused,
which is why I wanted you to bring that up.
Okay, now, one thing that both cultures had in mind,
the Mayan culture and the Egyptian culture had in mind,
also Sumerian, and again, this is where
we don't really understand necessarily
the intention of all these cultures, clearly,
from back in this time, but I'd like to get
into the notion of the focal point of the sun,
because this is hotly debated.
There are those who say the Sumerian culture,
you see the symbol of the sun, sun bad, worship of sun bad,
not bad in Egypt, not bad in the Mayan culture,
not bad in the druidic and other cultures, as well,
or in Incan cultures, so what is--
and I know that you understand the sun
on a more esoteric level than many people do,
can you talk about the role of the sun,
and its information systems?
The basic--
the sun, of course, is a star,
so we have to realize it, and as a star,
any star is like, a super, star system,
especially with planets, it's like
a large atom, or atomic structure,
the sun is the nucleus, and then planets going around,
in orbit, those are the electrons, okay?
So that's the first level.
Second level is, as a star,
the sun is a pulsing, vibrating,
actually multi-dimensional system,
we see the third-dimensional aspect of it
as this thing that gives heat and light, okay, basically,
but also it is actually the source of
the vitality of the living systems, okay,
in other words, why is that?
Because we have, for instance,
on this planet, we have the possibility
of what we speak of as organic matter,
and organic matter requires several things,
it requires solar radiation,
and it requires H2O,
okay, and oxygen,
an oxygen carbon dioxide cycle, so if the solar--
if there were not solar radiation,
none of the rest of it would go.
So that's the primal thing.
Okay, so we say, of course, life depends on the sun,
but as we've learned more recently,
the sun actually
is a pulsating electromagnetic organism
and its main, the main way that we know about
its living is through, it's called
a binary sunspot cycle,
the binary sunspot cycle is that they start
about a 11, 11-and-a-half year cycle,
say, a negative spot here and a positive spot here,
they pulse down until they hit the equator,
and at the equator, they switch,
and it just goes negative and then it becomes positive,
and this negative down here,
and then they complete the cycle about every 23 years.
So during, that's--
those pulsations are sending information
into the Earth's electromagnetic field, okay.
That information, solar information,
information that gets
digested and processed into, say,
evolutionary information, it gets processed,
maybe into more a planet develops possibilities
of intelligence, then, and it gets translated
into intelligent information, as well, ideas,
all that everything that gets pulled from the sun,
because the Earth's electromagnetic field
is intimately connected with the sun,
with the solar sunspot cycles,
the radiation center field, and the field
gathers the radiations and the pulsations,
and then it stores them, now, a planet
like our planet,
which sustains intelligent life,
or life capable of receiving intelligent information
from the rest of the cosmos,
then that planet develops the final
subtle etheric sphere, which is the noosphere,
the mental sphere of the planet,
the noosphere operates in tandem with the mental--
excuse me, with the electromagnetic field,
and so the information coming from the sun
and other cosmic radiation, comes and affects the noosphere,
and the noosphere actually, we don't know that much about it
at this point in time, but there is an aspect
of the noosphere that functions
as an information storage and retrieval system,
and it operates as the mechanism regulating
the timing cycles, or regulating the different,
the timing of the different evolutionary cycles
of the life programs on Earth.
All that is one
actually integrated whole, the sun,
down to the electromagnetic fields, to the noosphere.
Which is in fact, which certainly
is connected to the electromagnetic functioning
of even the human mental system and brain.
Yeah, the human brain, exactly.
So we're all, actually, I talk about the fact
that once we get past this 2012 hump,
our destiny is to become biosolar telepaths,
that we realize our biological nature
is totally hooked up to our solar nature,
is what the ancients spoke of
as the coming sixth sign of consciousness
of the new solar age,
and the new solar age is when we realize
that our consciousness is intimately related to the sun,
to the solar radiation and the information rays of the sun,
so our biological nature, our consciousness
is regulated by the solar pulsations,
and that when we integrate the biological and the solar,
and we activate our telepathic powers,
and then we become biosolar telepaths.
This is something of what, say, for instance,
the ancient Mayans or Mexicans or Incas
or Egyptians knew, the so-called sun worshippers,
that they actually knew that the sun
is the regulator of human consciousness,
and that's why they were paying attention to it.
And everywhere I read,
I would say it's beyond synchronicity at this point,
I keep reading different takes, different kinds
of information about the sun,
even NASA understand that in 2012,
they expect a great amount of solar wind
and solar flare activity, and yet,
no one's really putting all the pieces together
in terms of what that means in the global shift
of consciousness at that time,
so I very much appreciate what you just said about that,
and I did read from an esoteric text that I'm familiar with,
that until we understand what the sun is,
the new technologies that we will be utilizing
in our future cannot be unveiled yet.
Yeah, I totally agree with that.
You know, the ancient Mayans knew about this.
It's why I refer to them as the galactic Mayans,
the ones who were incarnated
and established themselves as the Mayans here.
They knew about this, and they had
a very sophisticated language to describe it,
and one of the terms that they use is (foreign language),
which is the paranormal or telepathic powers
that the human being has that are directly connected
to the solar radiation,
(foreign language)
telepathy and solar radiation,
and have a common--
actually, they're a common medium, right?
What about our directly interfacing with the sun,
with that intention, say, in solar gazing,
as the sun rises first thing in the morning?
Well, I think, yeah, I've done some solar gazing
myself, I think that's a great thing,
and I think that also,
if you were at my talk this morning,
I spoke about the living matter being either
autotrophic or heterotrophic, okay,
and I believe that
as we evolve, and as the noosphere represents
the next great era or eon, okay,
because I see it lasts a long time,
as we evolve more and more into a more
purely mental, spiritual forms even, okay,
and along the way, we will become--
we'll stop being heterotrophs,
we'll become planetary autotrophs.
And explain the division of the two.
Okay, autotroph doesn't take from the environment,
just whatever solar radiation comes in,
whatever moisture comes in, whatever minerals come up
from the roots, it absorbs directly into its own system
either through osmosis or through the solar rays
penetrating and then it transforms them
into chlorophyll and so on,
whereas heterotrophs are basically
all the animal forms of life, from insects
up to the human beings, where we depend
on symbiotic relationships, with ingesting other life forms,
whether it's plants or other animal forms,
to sustain ourselves, okay, and so then
we create all these different cycles.
So right now, we know that there's a tendency
that started that is going towards vegetarian
and vegan and raw food, juices,
and even every so often, someone will show up
and say, "Hey, I'm a breatharian, I've done it."
Well, that's basically the idea, is that we will
end up, as we go more and more
into a more pure mental and spiritual light form of being
that we'll become planetary autotrophs,
we'll cease to have the symbiotic relationships
with other forms, we will take in cosmic
and solar radiation and water, just absorb it
from the environment and that we will
evolve more refined organs
to metabolize this, and we will
synthesize certain,
what you might call even,
spectral forms of matter that we'll be able
to project out from ourselves,
and various other things, but that's what I believe
the final stage of the evolution is headed.
So this is really hinged
about our relationship with the sun,
and that the relationship with the sun
directly affects our sense of organic time.
And then now to kind of move further
and become more complete in that,
the sense of time and technology,
how do you see that going?
Well, the time and technology,
the technology that we have today
is all based on artificial time, okay.
So we say, by the biosphere,
and then we created this intermediate structure
called the technosphere, so based on transportation,
energy systems, and urban centers,
and communication system,
all as an inter-related whole, you know,
that creates the whole of the civilization,
the whole globalization as we know it.
But all that's based on artificial time.
All of this technology is an artificial extrusion
of ourselves, okay, and so,
as we create this artificial extrusion of ourselves
in the form of all this technological world
that we created, inside of ourselves,
our souls are rather empty.
Yes, that's become the exterior.
This trade-off, but the artificial time,
you know, can't hold.
So what would technology look like,
with an organic time?
Technology is going, we're going to be
talking about solar telepathic technologies,
okay, which is very different, we're talking
about different--
utilizing, well, what I think in the initial stages,
utilizing things like solar and wind and so on,
just to get us on another track,
and then I think also the zero-point energy,
the vacuum energy fields,
and then from there, to then, we'll begin
to develop and utilize much more, what I call,
telepathic technologies, in other words, telepathic--
I consider, like, the crop circles
as manifestations of telepathic technology,
those are direct,
those are direct imprints of focused thoughts
of a relatively complex, often geometrical
if not symbolic nature that are just impressed in the field,
that's telepathic technology.
The little orbs that they capture,
oftentimes, that are there and present,
do you think it's from that or something beyond that?
I think that's maybe something else.
Yeah, maybe something else entirely.
So looking at technology in the future,
there was an interesting event yesterday
when Irulan Roberts led the group into a meditation
and you could put yourself into the future
and what it looked like, and I interviewed
Barbara Marx Hubbard right after that,
and she and I had, essentially, the same vision,
slight variances, where it was this very organic sense
of time, organic sense of life,
living in close companionship with the Earth,
highly telepathic, but we were in the presence
of computer monitors, but it was connecting us
with everything that's possible, is, anyone you needed
to be in communion with anywhere on the planet
and beyond was right there, so it is quite possible,
it seemed to me, it seemed quite harmonious and beautiful,
that even the types of technology that we have,
in primitive form and given birth to,
are going to work very well
with the organic sense of time down the road.
Yeah, it could be.
It could be.
Right now, what we're dealing with right now
is that we've been too immature
to deal with the technologies.
Absolutely, you bet.
We've been too immature to deal with them,
we've developed, we became infatuated
with the clock, developed a runaway system
that we never tested,
and it's making morons and obese freaks out of us.
And so what we have to, you know,
look at that, and so there has to be
some kind of moratorium on all this,
so we can recalibrate our intelligence,
and see what it is that we actually do need,
because the thing is, I always say, that's really funny,
for 25,900 years,
homo sapiens did fairly well without cars,
and now it can't do without them,
or for 25,960 years,
homo sapiens did without computers,
and now it can't do without them,
and for 25,990 years, homo sapiens did
without cell phones, and it really can't do without them.
That is so true.
And so it's like, you know, hey, wait a minute,
we have to stop this process,
it's just, it's a runaway technology,
it's having all sorts of effects on our psyche,
on our social psyche, on our personal psyche,
that we can't even control, and we're all
just like, kind of sit around, helpless, you know,
and watch our kids go crazy.
Well, maybe that moratorium
will come as a result of the disintegration
of the current systems, which the consciousness
seems to be forcing.
Yeah, I think that we're going to,
that's what we're going to be seeing,
as we get into the 2012 arena,
and as we get there, I think a solar flare
may help us, assist us with that.
But I think it's very important, in that regard,
that people be educated to this possibility,
and so that people aren't going,
running around freaking because they can't text, okay,
we have to educate for this possibility.
We've, like, we've created a race
of highly technologically dependent people,
and that's what I mean, how we've lost touch
with our own nature, and with the greater nature,
and so I'm just hoping that in the next couple years
that there will be enough people who are awakening
to this so we have enough sense of social conscience
and responsibility, who will be able to begin
to communicate something of this,
so that when we begin to experience
an ever greater technological breakdown,
an ever greater economic collapse and failure,
that we realize, hey, we're okay,
money is just like an illusion, don't worry,
we lived without this technology all this time,
just learn how to grow a garden,
relax, it's all going to get better.
Well, on that note, I agree so much.
Thank you so much for your time, José.
Thank you for your questions and your thoughtfulness.
Thank you.
To understand more about
the Mayan versus Gregorian calendar,
you can go to LawOfTime.org.
José has a beautiful explanation of the new time there,
as well as videos that show the energetics at work.
If you're seeking more information on 2012,
you might also enjoy our interview with John Major Jenkins.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.